Exploiting Jenkins
Let’s create a project that will allow
us to execute system commands.
First, we will select the New Item link
at the top left to create a new item.
When the new Item page opens,
we’ll give the item a non-malicious
sounding name like “Access”,
select Freestyle project, and click OK.
To have Jenkins execute
a system command,
we can use the Build
configuration section.
We will select Add build step
and select “Execute Windows batch
command” from the dropdown.
When the Command text box
appears, we will enter in “whoami”.
Later we'll change this to other
commands we wish to execute.
For now we’ll click Save to continue.
Jenkins will then open
the item’s main page.
From here, we can select Build
Now to run the command.
When the build is executed, a new item
will be displayed under Build History.
Clicking on the “#1” will open
up the build page.
From the build page, we can select Console
Output to view the output of our command.
This will open up the
“Console Output” page
that displays the output of
the whoami command.
According to the output Jenkins is running
the code as the jenkinsuser account.
With that information handy, we can start
attempting to get a meterpreter shell.
It’s safe to assume that since Poultry
used antivirus, Cevapi will as well.
We should be able to use the same whoami
backdoored shell that we generated
earlier and attempt to obtain
a meterpreter shell on Cevapi.
We will first have to set up a web server
to download the shell from,
use Jenkins to download the shell,
start a metasploit listener on Kali,
and finally run the backdoored
executable using Jenkins.
First, let’s create a new
directory to work from
and copy the old whoami.exe
payload to it.
Next, we will start an HTTP server to
allow Cevapi to download the payload.
In Jenkins, we will click the Access
link at the top left of the screen
within the breadcrumbs.
This will take us back to
the Access item page.
Next, we click Configure in the sidebar
to open the configuration page,
which allows us to change
the Build command.
We will attempt to use PowerShell
to download the file.
With the PowerShell command
set, we will click Save,
which will take us back
to the “Access” item page.
From here, we select Build Now
to execute the command.
If the command worked, we will see a
log entry in our Python HTTP server.
Now that our file is downloaded,
we can stop the HTTP server,
and configure our metasploit listener.
Next, we will go back to Jenkins and
reconfigure the item to run the shell.
This can be done by setting
the command to execute
to the path of the downloaded binary.
When we are ready to capture the shell,
we click Build Now in Jenkins.
If everything went according to plan,
we should capture the
reverse shell in metasploit.
As expected, the user running the
Jenkins builds is named jenkinsuser.
This user is also not in
any administrator groups.
Now that we have a shell,
let’s enumerate Cevapi in the
hopes of finding a privilege escalation.